Document how to add a bytecode specialization in Interpreter.md file (#130831)
python/cpython: InternalDocs/interpreter.md

`STAT_INC(BASE_INSTRUCTION, hit)`.
After an optimization has been deferred in the adaptive instruction,
that should be recorded with `STAT_INC(BASE_INSTRUCTION, deferred)`.

> ## How to add a new bytecode specialization

Reviewer: Needs a line spacing
```suggestion

## How to add a new bytecode specialization
```

        // After
        op(_CONTAINS_OP, ...);
  ```

- Add a uop that calls the specializing function `_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP`. 
  For example.

  ```c
        specializing op(_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP, (counter/1, left, right -- left, right)) {
            #if ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION
            if (ADAPTIVE_COUNTER_IS_ZERO(counter)) {
                next_instr = this_instr;
                _Py_Specialize_ContainsOp(right, next_instr);
                DISPATCH_SAME_OPARG();
            }
            STAT_INC(CONTAINS_OP, deferred);
            DECREMENT_ADAPTIVE_COUNTER(this_instr[1].cache);
            #endif  /* ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION */
        }
  ```

- The original `CONTAINS_OP` is now a new macro consisting of
      `_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP` and `_CONTAINS_OP`.

2. Define the cache structure in [Include/internal/pycore_code.h](../Include/internal/pycore_code.h),
at the very least, a 16-bit counter is needed.

    ```c
        typedef struct {
            uint16_t counter;
        } _PyContainsOpCache;
    ```      

3. Write the specializing function itself in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c). 
   Refer to any other function in that file for the format.

> 4. Remember to update operation stats by calling add_stat_dict in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Remember to update operation stats by calling `add_stat_dict` in 
```

After an optimization has been deferred in the adaptive instruction,
that should be recorded with `STAT_INC(BASE_INSTRUCTION, deferred)`.

## How to add a new bytecode specialization

Assuming you found an instruction that serves as a good specialization candidate. 
Let's use the example of [`CONTAINS_OP`](../Doc/library/dis.rst#contains_op):

1. Update below in [Python/bytecodes.c](../Python/bytecodes.c)

- Convert `CONTAINS_OP` to a micro-operation (uop) by renaming
     it to `_CONTAINS_OP` and changing the instruction definition
     from `inst` to `op`.

  ```c
        // Before
        inst(CONTAINS_OP, ...);

        // After
        op(_CONTAINS_OP, ...);
  ```

- Add a uop that calls the specializing function `_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP`. 

>   For example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add a uop that calls the specializing function:
```

  ```c
        specializing op(_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP, (counter/1, left, right -- left, right)) {
            #if ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION
            if (ADAPTIVE_COUNTER_IS_ZERO(counter)) {
                next_instr = this_instr;
                _Py_Specialize_ContainsOp(right, next_instr);
                DISPATCH_SAME_OPARG();
            }
            STAT_INC(CONTAINS_OP, deferred);
            DECREMENT_ADAPTIVE_COUNTER(this_instr[1].cache);
            #endif  /* ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION */
        }
  ```

- The original `CONTAINS_OP` is now a new macro consisting of

>       `_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP` and `_CONTAINS_OP`.

Reviewer 2: Create a macro for the original bytecode name:

```c
    macro(CONTAINS_OP) = _SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP + _CONTAINS_OP;
```

2. Define the cache structure in [Include/internal/pycore_code.h](../Include/internal/pycore_code.h),
at the very least, a 16-bit counter is needed.

    ```c
        typedef struct {
            uint16_t counter;
        } _PyContainsOpCache;
    ```      

3. Write the specializing function itself in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c). 
   Refer to any other function in that file for the format.
4. Remember to update operation stats by calling `add_stat_dict` in 
   [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c).
5. Add the cache layout in [Lib/opcode.py](../Lib/opcode.py) so that Python's 
   dis module will know how to represent it properly.
6. Bump magic number in  [Include/core/pycore_magic_number.h](../Include/internal/pycore_magic_number.h).
7. Run ``make regen-all`` on `*nix` or `build.bat --regen` on Windows.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Write the specializing function itself (_Py_Specialize_ContainsOp) in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c). 
   Refer to other functions in that file for the pattern.

4. Add a call to `add_stat_dict` in `_Py_GetSpecializationStats` which is in
   [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c).

5. Add the cache layout in [Lib/opcode.py](../Lib/opcode.py) so that Python's 
   `dis` module will know how to represent it properly.

6. Bump magic number in  [Include/core/pycore_magic_number.h](../Include/internal/pycore_magic_number.h).

7. Run `make regen-all` on `*nix` or `build.bat --regen` on Windows.

```

Reviewer 2: This suggestion has some edits to the text as well, not just whitespace.

After an optimization has been deferred in the adaptive instruction,
that should be recorded with `STAT_INC(BASE_INSTRUCTION, deferred)`.

## How to add a new bytecode specialization

> Assuming you found an instruction that serves as a good specialization candidate. 
> Let's use the example of [`CONTAINS_OP`](../Doc/library/dis.rst#contains_op):

Reviewer 3: This sentence is a dependent clause, you either need a comma and then some more information, or remove the word "assuming." How about this?

```suggestion
Let's say you found an instruction that serves as a good specialization candidate, such as [`CONTAINS_OP`](../Doc/library/dis.rst#contains_op):
```

> 1. Update below in [Python/bytecodes.c](../Python/bytecodes.c)

Reviewer 3: I don't really like the phrase "Update below in," it's kind of wordy and an incomplete sentence. You could try something like this:
```suggestion
1. Make necessary changes to the instruction in [Python/bytecodes.c](../Python/bytecodes.c)
```

> - Convert `CONTAINS_OP` to a micro-operation (uop) by renaming
>      it to `_CONTAINS_OP` and changing the instruction definition
>      from `inst` to `op`.

Reviewer 3: - `CONTAINS_OP` is still an example here, we should try to be more general.
- For clarity, we could explain why it's a "u."
- Reduce indentation.

```suggestion
- Convert the instruction (`CONTAINS_OP`, in our example) to a micro-operation (uop, formally μop) by renaming it to `_INSTRUCTION_NAME` (e.g., `_CONTAINS_OP`) and changing the instruction definition
from `inst` to `op`.
```

  ```c
        // Before
        inst(CONTAINS_OP, ...);

        // After
        op(_CONTAINS_OP, ...);
  ```

- Add a uop that calls the specializing function:

  ```c
        specializing op(_SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP, (counter/1, left, right -- left, right)) {
            #if ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION
            if (ADAPTIVE_COUNTER_IS_ZERO(counter)) {
                next_instr = this_instr;

>                 _Py_Specialize_ContainsOp(right, next_instr);

Reviewer 4: Nit, presumably this would use both operands:

```suggestion
                _Py_Specialize_ContainsOp(left, right, next_instr);
```

                DISPATCH_SAME_OPARG();
            }
            STAT_INC(CONTAINS_OP, deferred);
            DECREMENT_ADAPTIVE_COUNTER(this_instr[1].cache);
            #endif  /* ENABLE_SPECIALIZATION */
        }
  ```

> - Create a macro for the original bytecode name:

Reviewer 3: "intruction" reads better to me here.
```suggestion
- Create a macro for the original instruction name:
```

Reviewer 3: It also might be worth mentioning here *what* should go in that macro, but it also seems pretty clear based on the example.

    
  ```c 
  macro(CONTAINS_OP) = _SPECIALIZE_CONTAINS_OP + _CONTAINS_OP; 
  ``` 

> 2. Define the cache structure in [Include/internal/pycore_code.h](../Include/internal/pycore_code.h),
> at the very least, a 16-bit counter is needed.

Reviewer 3: The clause after the first comma is independent, so it can't be used there. Let's just turn it into its own sentence.
```suggestion
2. Define the cache structure in [Include/internal/pycore_code.h](../Include/internal/pycore_code.h). It needs to have at least a 16-bit counter field.
```

    ```c
        typedef struct {
            uint16_t counter;
        } _PyContainsOpCache;
    ```      

> 3. Write the specializing function itself (`_Py_Specialize_ContainsOp`) in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c). 

Reviewer 3: `_Py_Specialize_ContainsOp` is an example.
```suggestion
3. Write the specializing function itself (e.g., `_Py_Specialize_ContainsOp`) in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c). 
```

Refer to other functions in that file for the pattern.

> 4. Add a call to `add_stat_dict` in  `_Py_GetSpecializationStats` which is in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c).

Reviewer 3: Extra space.
```suggestion
4. Add a call to `add_stat_dict` in `_Py_GetSpecializationStats` which is in [Python/specialize.c ](../Python/specialize.c).
```

> 5. Add the cache layout in [Lib/opcode.py](../Lib/opcode.py) so that Python's 
>    `dis` module will know how to represent it properly.

Reviewer 3: - "to," not "in."
- I think the context already implies that it's Python's `dis` module :)
```suggestion
5. Add the cache layout to [Lib/opcode.py](../Lib/opcode.py) so that the 
`dis` module will know how to represent it properly.
```

> 6. Bump magic number in  [Include/core/pycore_magic_number.h](../Include/internal/pycore_magic_number.h).

Reviewer 3: Extra space.
```suggestion
6. Bump magic number in [Include/core/pycore_magic_number.h](../Include/internal/pycore_magic_number.h).
```

7. Run ``make regen-all`` on `*nix` or `build.bat --regen` on Windows.

> 

Reviewer 4: Seems like the only thing missing is adding an actual specialized variant. Maybe that's implied/obvious, but it wouldn't hurt to provide a dumb example of `_Py_Specialize_ContainsOp` and `_CONTAINS_OP_UNICODE_UNICODE` that just guards and calls `PyUnicode_Contains` or something.
